# Population Genetics in R Hackathon <br/> Open Call for Participation

Do you develop population genetics methods or algorithms in R? Are you
a researcher wrestling with analyzing population genetics data in R?
Have you run into difficulties with passing data or metadata from one
R package to another? Have you run into problems with large datasets?
Have you found documentation on building workflows from packages for
population genetics analysis difficult to come by? Do you have
expertise and ideas to share and energy to spend on overcoming these
challenges? Do you enjoy collaborating with like-minded others to do
so? If you answered some (or all) of these questions with yes, then
the following event may be for you.

## Synopsis 

NESCent is sponsoring a hackathon to be held at NESCent in Durham,
North Carolina, on March 16-20, 2015, with the objective to help
foster an interoperating ecosystem of scalable tools and resources for
population genetics data analysis in the popular R platform. The event
is designed to target interoperability, scalability, and workflow
building challenges among the many population genetics R packages that
already exist. The gathering provides an opportunity for a diverse
group of population genetics researchers, method developers, and
people with other relevant areas of expertise to collaborate on code,
documentation, use-cases, and other resources that will aid their
communities.

Full details and additional background are available at the following
website: http://informatics.nescent.org/wiki/R_PopGen_Hackathon

## How to participate 

Applications to participate in the hackathon are now being accepted.
To apply, please fill out the following form:
http://goo.gl/forms/siwNo1P3ti

Deadline for receiving your application is December 11, 2014. Support
for travel, food and lodging costs are available to successful
applicants who indicate need. We particularly welcome applications
from women and members of other groups underrepresented in science and
in software engineering.

Our plan is to begin sending out acceptance letters December 15, 2014,
and if your application is successful, we will need you to confirm
attendance within 2 days of receiving notice, so please ensure you can
receive and send email during the week of December 15.

Sincerely,<br/>
The organizing team: Thibaut Jombart, Hilmar Lapp, St√©phanie Manel, Emmanuel Paradis, Bastian Pfeifer, and Greg Warnes
