ISMB 2015 Poster submission

Towards an interoperating ecosystem of tools and resources for population genetics in R

The broad and inexpensive availability of modern next-generation
sequencing and genotyping technologies have led to a wealth of data
and analytical methods for population genetics research. In the
popular statistical and mathematical computing platform R alone, there
are now dozens of packages available for analyzing and visualizing
population genetics data. However, this organically grown wealth of
methods and packages, combined with the exponential growth of
datasets, has also created challenges for researchers to take full
advantage of these resources. It can be difficult to know which R
packages are best used, and many packages do not interoperate well. A
common base class that provides efficient storage of genetic data and
promotes interoperability remains lacking even though the need was
identified years ago. Current implementations often do not scale well
to the kind of large volume datasets that are increasingly
common. Creating complex analysis workflows that need to pass data,
metadata, and other state information from one package to another can
be challenging. To address these gaps, we held the Population Genetics
in R Hackathon at, and sponsored by the National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent), located in Durham, NC.  We designed the
event to target interoperability, scalability, and workflow building
challenges among the many population genetics R packages that already
exist, and to ultimately help foster an interoperating ecosystem of
tools and resources for both users and researcher-developers. Here we
highlight key outcomes of the event, which are all open-source and
freely available. For details see
https://github.com/NESCent/r-popgen-hackathon/.
